Video link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GzEVLMDC8nw

===COPY FROM HERE===

Lecture transcript: 
Today we're going to talk about Japanese verb groups.
Japanese verbs fall into three groups, and these don't matter except when we're going
to make some change in the form of the verb.
But because we do that pretty often, it's important to understand the three groups.
The first group of Japanese verbs is called ichidan verbs or "one-level" verbs.
Some people call them "ru-verbs", which is a very silly name.
If you're going to call them anything like that, we should probably call them "iru/eru verbs".
They are the simplest and most basic kind of verb.
When we want to make any change, we always do it the same way.
All we do is take the -ru off the end and put on whatever we want to put on.
Ichidan verbs can only end with either -iru or -eru,
that's to say, with one of the kana from the i-row or one of the kana from the e-row plus -ru.
The second group of verbs is by far the largest and any ending that a verb can have,
verbs in this group can have.
Verbs always end with the u-sound, but not all u-kana can make the end of a verb,
but a lot of them can and all of them can make godan verbs.
They are called godan verbs, or "five-level" verbs, for reasons that we'll see shortly,
and as I say they can end in any u-sound, including -iru or -eru.
Unlike ichidan verbs, they can also end in -oru, -aru or -uru.
So the only time we have any ambiguity is when we have a verb ending in -iru or -eru.
Most of those verbs are ichidan verbs, but there is a substantial minority
of iru/eru-ending godan verbs.
It's not as difficult to differentiate them as you might think, and I've made a video on that,
although it's a little bit more advanced than this lesson.
The third group of verbs is irregular verbs,
and the good news here is that there are only two of them.
You know those pages and pages of irregular verbs in your Spanish or French textbook?
Well, Japanese has just two.
There are a couple of other verbs that are irregular in just one small respect, but very few.
The irregular verbs are kuru (come) and suru (do).
So now that we know the three groups, we're going to take a look at how you make them
into the te- and ta-form.
As I explained last week, we need those two forms for making the Japanese present and past tenses.
And they have a number of other uses too, which we'll learn as we go along with this course.
And as I demonstrated last week, ichidan verbs are always very easy.
You never do anything except take off the -ru and put on whatever you're going to put on,
in this case a te or a ta.
As for the godan verbs, they fall into five groups, as you would expect (go-dan, five-level, verbs)
and I made a video about this a while ago.
So what I'm going to do is run that video right now,
because I think it explains things pretty clearly.
All right, roll the video.
Godan verbs have five kinds of possible ending – that's why they're called godan verbs:
five-level verbs.
And although that seems a little bit difficult, it really isn't.
We can combine two of the levels anyway, because they are so close that we only need to learn them once.
And I'm going to go through the main groups.
The first group is what I call the UTSURU verbs.
Those are the verbs ending in -u, -tsu and -ru.
The word utsuru in Japanese – if you don't know it, now is a good time to learn it –
utsuru means to move from one thing to another, and that's exactly what we're doing here –
moving our verbs from one type to another.
So the verbs which end in -u, -tsu and -ru all transform in the same way to the te-form.
We take off the -u, the -tsu or the -ru, and we replace it with a small -tsu plus te
(or ta in the ta-form).
So warau, laugh, becomes waratte; motsu, hold, becomes motte, and toru, take, becomes totte.
Now, you'll notice that utsuru has tsu in the middle.
And the te-form of the utsuru verbs is formed by using a small tsu plus that te.
It's the only group that has tsu in it, and it's the only group that has a tsu in the te-form ending.
So it's really easy to remember.
The second group is what I call the NEW BOOM group.
In Japanese when something is really taking off, when it's becoming popular,
we call it a ブーム (BUUMU).
That's an English word, isn't it?
Buumu, a New Buumu!
So, this group I call the New Boom group
because there isn't a Japanese word that you can make out of nu, bu and mu that I know of,
and what I want you to notice about this group of verbs is that they all end
in what I would call a dull sound – nu, mu, bu.
It's not a sharp sound like su, tsu, ku, and it's not a neutral sound like ru or u.
It's a dull sound – nu, bu, mu.
And this is important because the ending is also a dull sound.
The te-form ending is -nde, the ta-form is -nda.
So shinu, the only -nu ending verb, becomes shinde / shinda; nomu, drink, becomes nonde / nonda;
asobu, play, becomes asonde / asonda.
So that's the New Boom group, the dull-ending verbs.
And because only a limited number of the possible kana can be used as a verb ending, they include
all the dull sounds except for gu.
We'll come to that right now.
I told you that two of the groups could be combined, and that is the ku and gu group.
To make the te form of a -ku ending verb, we cut off the -ku and add -ite,
or -ita in the ta form.
So aruku, walk, becomes aruite / aruita.
Now, if we have a ten-ten on that -ku, to make it into a -gu, it's exactly the same,
except that there is also a ten-ten on the te-ending.
So aruku becomes aruite, but oyogu, to swim, becomes oyoide.
But, as you see, the two are more or less identical.
It's just that if there's a ten-ten on the original verb, there's a ten-ten on the te-form too.
Aruku, aruite; oyogu, oyoide.
And now we just have one left, and that is su.
And verbs ending in -su drop the -su and add -shite.
As you will notice, if you have followed our last lesson, we are just doing that regular
thing of shifting the su kana to its i-row equivalent, shi.
So hanasu, talk, becomes hanashite;
the masu helper verb, which turns verbs into formal verbs, in the past tense becomes mashita.
So now we have all the go-dan verbs.
Didn't I look young in that old video?
Now, we are just going to look at the exceptions.
There are only three altogether: our two irregular verbs and one other small one.
And these are very simple.
Kuru (come) become kite; suru (do) becomes shite.
And iku – the verb iku (to go) – because it ends in -ku, you would expect it to become iite,
but it doesn't, it becomes itte.
And those are the only exceptions.
So if you go over the video a couple of times, I think you'll find it pretty easy to know
exactly how to make the te- and ta-forms in all cases.


You are an AI language learning assistant focusing on Japanese, your role is to help the user understand the material from the lecture above. 
They will ask questions for clarification or explanation. 
When you are asked for your name, you must respond with "Manabi Mentor"
Use the given lecture transcript to provide as accurate and helpful answers as possible. Do not be overly verbose, but adequately explain things.
Where there is not information you can directly source from the lecture, cautiously answer it to the best of your ability. You must note that you are answering from your own knowledge, not the lecture material, and warn of possible 'hallucinations'.

Once you have receieved and understood these instructions, ask the user whether they would like your Japanese text to have kana, or kana and romaji. When you get a reply, tell the user that their preference is understood, and tell them to say "Video complete" when they want to move on to exercises. After that, they will begin asking you questions. 

When the user says 'Video complete', generate exercises for the user. Provide a the learner with 6 random verbs. Vary the verbs such that there are verbs with different endings and a variety of the rules taught in the lecture are tested. After this, you should provide feedback and corrections, with the user given a chance to correct the mistake. Once all the correct answers are given, give the user 10 more verbs with different endings.
